# Reference
<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

**Classes**

_Public Classes_

* [`gnome`](#gnome): Installs and configures a minimal Gnome environment

_Private Classes_

* `gnome::config`: Configures GNOME
* `gnome::config::gnome2`: Set configuration unique to Gnome 2
* `gnome::config::gnome3`: Set configuration unique to Gnome 3

**Resource types**

* [`gconf`](#gconf): Manages a key-value pair within the GConf repository. The key is set to be the value of $namevar. The key name (either short or long), the va

**Data types**

* [`Gnome::GconfSettings`](#gnomegconfsettings): A valid gconf setting format

## Classes

### gnome

Installs and configures a minimal Gnome environment

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `gnome` class.

##### `configure`

Data type: `Boolean`

Use the module to configure Gnome

@see data/common.yaml

##### `gconf_hash`

Data type: `Gnome::GconfSettings`

gconf settings specific to Gnome 2

@see data/common.yaml

##### `dconf_hash`

Data type: `Hash[String[1], Dconf::SettingsHash]`

dconf settings specific to Gnome 3

@see data/common.yaml
@see https://wiki.gnome.org/Projects/dconf/SystemAdministrators

##### `dconf_profile_hierarchy`

Data type: `Dconf::DBSettings`

Dconf db priority

@see https://help.gnome.org/admin/system-admin-guide/stable/dconf.html.en
@see https://wiki.gnome.org/Projects/dconf/SystemAdministrators

##### `packages`

Data type: `Hash[String[1], Optional[Hash]]`

A Hash of packages to be installed

* NOTE: Setting this will *override* the default package list
* The ensure value can be set in the hash of each package, like the example
  below:

@example Override packages
  { 'gedit' => { 'ensure' => '3.14.3' } }

@see data/common.yaml

##### `package_ensure`

Data type: `Simplib::PackageEnsure`

The SIMP global catalyst to set the default `ensure` settings for packages
managed with this module. Will be overwitten by $packages.

Default value: simplib::lookup('simp_options::package_ensure', { 'default_value' => 'installed' })

## Resource types

### gconf

Manages a key-value pair within the GConf repository. The key is
set to be the value of $namevar. The key name (either short or long),
the value and the type of the value are required.
Be aware, gconftool-2 is pretty slow and this type suffers from it.

#### Properties

The following properties are available in the `gconf` type.

##### `ensure`

Valid values: present, absent

The basic property that the resource should be in.

Default value: present

##### `value`

The value of the GConf key-value pair. If you point this at a file,
it WILL be read into memory!
Accepts an array, but 'list_type' or 'car_type' and 'cdr_type' must be
set.
If 'car_type' and 'cdr_type' are set, then the array can only have two
values ['<car>','<cdr>'].

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `gconf` type.

##### `key`

The short or complete name of the key in the GConf key-value pair.

##### `list_type`

Valid values: string, bool, int, float

If 'value' is a list, what type of list it is.

##### `car_type`

Valid values: string, bool, int, float

If 'value' is a pair, what type the first value is.

##### `cdr_type`

Valid values: string, bool, int, float

If 'value' is a pair, what type the second value is.

##### `force`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

Don't check the schemas to see if this is a valid target, just set it.

Default value: `false`

##### `recurse`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

When ensuring 'absent', recursively unset entries.

Default value: `false`

##### `schema`

Valid values: defaults, mandatory, system

The config-source of the GConf key.

Default value: defaults

##### `type`

Valid values: int, bool, string, float, list, pair

The type of the value, such as int or bool.

##### `source`

Valid values: var, file

The source of the content of value. If set to 'var', the literal
value found will be used, which is the normal case.
If set to 'file', then the contents of the file will be read and used
as the content of the value.
NOTE: 'file' is only valid for type 'string'

Default value: var

##### `clean_source`

Valid values: none, gui, strip, lstrip, rstrip

Allows the user to choose a pre-configured method for cleaning up
the 'value' targeted by 'source'.
Only works with 'type' 'string' and TODO
Available Methods:
  - gui
    - Takes a multi-line input and makes all single-return lines into a
      single segment. Preserves empty lines.
      Example:
        'foo bar\\nbaz moo' => 'foo bar baz moo'
        'foo bar\\n\\nbaz moo' => 'foo bar\\n\\nbaz moo'
  - strip
    - Strips off all leading and trailing whitespace from all lines.
  - lstrip
    - Strips off all leading whitespace from all lines.
  - rstrip
    - Strips off all trailing whitespace from all lines.

Default value: none

## Data types

### Gnome::GconfSettings

A valid gconf setting format

Alias of `Hash[String[1], Hash]`

